CCNA

what is a network?
    2 computers connected through a wire(cat 5 cable ) the connctor is called as RJ45 that is plugged into the port.

LAN - Local area Network

    In a small area or office, several computers are connected through a networking device using - SWITCH or HUB using each computers IP address.

WAN - wide area Network

    For eg: company is at 2 locations , salem and chennai.
        The computer in the company have to be connected in both the locations
        ISP - Here comes the ISP (Internet service provider) locally they provide the connection between salem and chennai.
            ISP - have high data speed connections to provide service for the WAN fro companies.
        Jack on the bulding in salem to ISP at salem then to ISP at chennai to Jack at chennai.

Internet are very massive WAN (wan connected to wan to wan ....)where information and communcations are shared using standardised protocols.   
    - if the distance between the 2 systems is long there might be a delay in network.
bit and Byte
    1 Byte = 8 bit

    bit is 0 or 1
    Byte 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 - (8 digit sequence of bits i.e. 0's and 1's)

    Speed is always calculated by bits and data is always calculated by Bytes.
        Speed - 1 Mbps (mega bit per second)
        Data - 128 KB file ( Kilo Byte) - 128 KB * 8 = 1024 bits of data i.e. 1 Mbps speed.     
            so at 1 Mbps speed, 128 kb data can be transferred in a second.

Network Topology
    Star Topology
    Ring Topology
    Bus Topology.

    Star Topology
        like in a star, all the systems are connected to a central switch.

Day 2 :

ISO - International organisation for standard.

OSI -  Open system interconnect

    "Please do not throw sausage pizza away"
        
        7. Application
        6. Presentation
        5. Session

        4. Transport

        3. Network

        2. Data link
        1. Physical.

TCP/IP  
        4. Application

        3. Transport
        
        2. Internet
        
        1. Network Interface.